Warn when creating packages with non-ASCII characters in the package ID (#14950)
NuGet/Home: accepted/2026/warning-non-ascii-characters.md

# ***Warn when creating packages with non-ASCII characters in the package ID***

- Nikolche Kolev <https://github.com/nkolev92>
- [Pack Warning when Package ID doesn't meet the standards](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/14949)

## Summary

> Raise a NuGet pack warning when the package ID being authored contains characters outside of the ASCII range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Raise a NuGet pack warning when the package ID being authored does not adhere to the new restricted set of allowed characters.
```

Author: Applied throughout.

See [Strengthening NuGet Security with Package ID Standards](https://github.com/NuGet/Announcements/issues/75).

## Motivation

As announced in [Strengthening NuGet Security with Package ID Standards](https://github.com/NuGet/Announcements/issues/75), nuget.org now enforces stricter package ID rules. New package IDs must match `^[A-Za-z0-9_](?!.*[.-]{2})[A-Za-z0-9.-]{0,99}$`, and starting July 15th, even existing IDs that don't conform will be blocked from pushing new versions.

Without a corresponding client-side signal, authors only learn about the restriction at `dotnet nuget push` time - typically late in the release process, after CI has produced a `.nupkg` they cannot ship.
Warning at pack time gives authors the earliest possible signal, before any artifact is uploaded, and avoids late-stage release surprises.

The longer-term plan is to promote this warning to an error in a later .NET SDK release (targeted at .NET 12).
See [Strengthening NuGet Security with Package ID Standards](https://github.com/NuGet/Announcements/issues/75) for the broader rollout plan and timelines.

## Explanation

### Functional explanation

> When a user runs `dotnet pack` (or any other entry point that invokes the NuGet `Pack` task) on a project whose effective package ID contains characters outside the restricted set, NuGet emits a warning:

Reviewer 2: nit/question: Should we use the phrase "allowed set" instead of "restricted set"?

Author: Yep, can be tweaked, that improves it.

```text

> warning NU5052: The package ID 'Contöso.Utilities' does not adhere to the restricted set of characters allowed in package IDs. Rename the package to use only characters from the restricted set.

Reviewer 2: This warning does make it clear that the customer is using a package id that could constitute characters that are outside of the allowed set. But it does not make it clear what the allowed set is. Should we consider adding some information about the allowed set or an aka.ms link that leads to more information about the allowed list.

Author: The message has diverted from the client implementation. 

I'll bring them up to date. 

The variation in the PR is: 

> The package ID '{0}' is invalid. Package IDs must start with a letter, digit, or underscore, and contain only ASCII letters, digits, dots (.), dashes (-), and underscores (_), with no consecutive dots or dashes
